Bus Stop
Nice serve!
Out!
Everyone was antsy during
the opening ceremonies,
One more!
but they don't seem as nervous as they
were during yesterday's practice.
Okay. Okay, got it.
Thanks.
What's the matter?
One more!
That was from Shimada at the
Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium.
Apparently, the matches are moving
much faster than expected.
Nice serve!
Especially in the beginning,
it's really important
that warm up properly.
I was hoping we'd have some more
time to do it.
It's about ten minutes to the
Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium by bus.
All right, let's get going.
Right!
All right!
Mommy, I have to go pee.
Hurry up and go.
When's the next bus?
There, there... You must be hungry.
In four minutes.
Bathroom break.
I'm gonna go, too.
I'll watch your stuff.
Thanks!
You're seting yourself up to be late.
Hey, stop that!
You first-years have a lot of stuff.
I'll carry some of it.
No, no. It's okay.
These nerves are going to kill me
if I don't keep busy with something.
Thanks.
All right, stay calm.
Talking to yourself, Daichi?
Shut up.
Azumane, you forgot your pass.
Sorry about that!
You won't be able to go inside without this.
Everyone's still stiff as can be,
but that's to be expected.
Also, I need to calm down.
Huh?
What? You forget something?
No, this bag...
is the same as mine,
but it's not mine...
Huh?
I don't have... my shoes!
Haikyu!!
Episode 10: Battle Lines
So it got switched out somewhere?
It's the orange-colored one
from that kids' clothing store, right?
It was Natsu's... but it's sturdy
and was the prefect size...
While you were in the bathroom,
I looked away from the
luggage for just a sec.
That must have been when...
I'm so sorry!
It's not your fault, Yamaguchi!
Okay, calm down.
I'll call the gym where we were
doing our warm-ups.
Should we go buy another pair?
If it comes down to it.
Sorry!
Don't worry. It's not like anyone's dying.
Hey, where's your phone?
It's inside that bag!
Nice, Kageyama.
Hello?
Apparently no one's turned in a bag...
A kid accidentally took it.
The mom said they'd wait at the gym.
Thank goodness... It's not far.
But Shimada went to pick up
the neighborhood crew.
I'll go.
Huh?
In that case, I should probably go.
Karasuno High School
Volleyball Club
I'm pretty confident when it
comes to stamina and speed.
I won't take too long, but I know
you'll feel a little lost without me.
But... you'll just have to get used to that.
Right.
I'll be back before the match starts.
We're sorry!
This might be asking too much,
but try not to worry while I'm gone, okay?
Thanks, Shimizu. We're counting on you.
Kiyoko-san...
Please be safe.
Hearing you talk like that is making me
even more nervous, so just stop.
Shimizu will be just fine.
Come on! We need to concentrate on our match!
Let's get down there and warm up.
Right!
After practicing, and practicing,
and practicing...
Everything I had worked so hard
for ended so abruptly.
What did I do differently that time?
I could feel my leg cutting through the air,
but it was suddenly met with something hard,
and I felt my chest tighten.
We've got this! One more lap!
Did you already decide
on a club, Shimizu-san?
Any interest in becoming a
manager for the volleyball team?
It could be that I feared that truth
more than I was willing to admit.
Sure.
The volleyball team hadn't
had a manager for a while
so I picked up some things on my own.
The rules of the game, the referees'
hand signals, how points were scored.
It felt nice to devote myself to something...
But it still sort of felt
like I was on the outside.
I felt some relief, knowing that
I wouldn't be out on the front lines.
But as time went on, gradually,
the players stopped being
just random people to me.
Fly
Karasuno High School Boys' Volleyball Club
Listen up.
Compared to the floors we usually play on,
the floors here will be harder to slide on.
You'll get hurt if you
play like you usually do.
Work up a good sweat to get
rid of some of that friction.
Right!
Tech                                                            Umakita
Thank you very much!
All right, let's go!
Yeah!
That ceiling's probably gonna cause
more of a problem than I expected.
Huh?
Not only is this our first
time here, but it's huge.
We need to expect
that it's going to take them a little while
to get used to the sense of distance.
Make sure you get the ball higher than usual!
Right!
So bright—
Come on! Be more careful!
Right!
Karasuno                                                       Tsubakihara
Man, my hands take forever
to warm up when I'm nervous.
Do you need some gloves?
Nah, I'll be fine.
Don't you ever get nervous?
I do.
But I'm not nervous right now.
The hell?
This is just another step toward our goal.
Damn you, you big shot!
Hurry up and come back to me, shoes!
Bus Stop
I became a volleyball team
manager on a whim.
There wasn't anyone filling
that position before me,
so I thought they'd just go back
to how things were if I ever left.
But...
I had to pass it on.
I had to entrust this
position to someone new.
After practicing, and practicing,
and practicing...
Everything I had worked so hard
for ended so abruptly.
So what?
It's not that I'm admitting defeat.
It's not that I'm saying we're going to win.
I'm not going to be standing on the court,
nor am I going to be wearing a uniform.
But right now...
I have to take on this challenge!
This is my battle line right now.
Hitoka-chan!
Discipline
My shoes!
Fly
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!
I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry! I'm so sorry!
I'm pretty sure I can jump
about five meters high now!
Really? I'll be looking
forward to that, then.
All right, line up—
Tsuba High! Fight!
Yeah!
Tsubakihara
My nerves... are about to kill me...
so let's at least make sure
we're being heard out there!
Stop making it sound like all
we know how to do is yell.
Haikyu!!
Karasuno                                                                         Tsubakihara
Miyagi
Karasuno
Karasuno High School.
Tsubakihara Academy.
The match is about to begin!
Let's play!
To be honest, I was a bit worried
with how nervous everyone was,
but they seem to be over it now.
Especially Hinata.
Maybe him losing his shoes
was a blessing in disguise.
And it's all thanks to Shimizu-san.
Yeah!
You okay, Maruyama?
You look like you're the most nervous.
I'm okay!
I'm never going to repeat the nightmare
where we were on the bus back home
before I knew what happened!
You were insanely nervous for
our first nationals last year.
All right, I want you to concentrate on
splitting up their attacks with your serves.
We'll be able to deal with them as
long as we can limit their attacks.
But don't take your eyes off of their #10.
He'll hit the ball from the
direction we're least expecting.
Right!
They're totally staring at us.
Those guys beat Shiratorizawa, right?
Let's not think about that.
Would you have preferred
to play Shiratorizawa?
Nope!
Right?
We saw their game against
Shiratorizawa at their qualifiers,
and it's not like they crushed them.
Lucky breaks happen to exist in this world.
So basically, we're lucky that we're
not going up against Ushiwaka!
Correct.
You sure are good at
looking on the bright side.
It doesn't change the fact
that they beat Shiratorizawa.
But that doesn't matter.
Maru's not the only one who doesn't
want a repeat of last year.
Every team here has defeated another
powerhouse school to qualify.
And those powerhouses that defeated other
powerhouses may still disappear instantly.
This first match...
The team that's swallowed up by
their opponents and the crowd
will disappear.
Hit 'em with a killer serve!
Out!
Nice call!
Sorry.
It's okay. We'll get the next one.
Even the Smallest Stream Can Become a Great River Tsubakihara Academy Volleyball Club
Lucky, lucky, Tsuba High!
Karasuno                                                                  Tsubakihara
Sorry!
Cover!
He served right into the spot
where the back-row setter
would cross paths with someone else.
He hit to that spot like it's nothing.
Daichi-san!
Nice receive.
The one we have to definitely look
out for is their #4, Teradomari.
He's tall guy, 190 cm, and hits the ball
even if the set isn't perfect.
His back row attack is pretty intense, too.
Do whatever you can to make sure
he doesn't get over your blocks.
Tera!
So high!
Good!
Cover!
Tanaka!
It's long!
Karasuno                                                                                                           Tsubakihara
Nice kill!
Sorry!
It's all right! Move on!
Got it!
Here he comes.
Their #10.
Even the Smallest Stream Can Become a Great River Tsubakihara Academy Volleyball Club
Lucky, lucky, Tsuba High!
Volleyball is a sport where the
ball is usually in the air.
A sharp sense of spatial awareness
is absolutely necessary.
But there's no doubt that their
nerves and being in this gym
for the first time are
messing with that awareness.
And the one who is
being affected the most
is Kageyama-kun, whose setting
requires absolute precision.
Sorry.
I'll adjust.
Sorry, I'll need a little time.
I know.
Karasuno                                                        Tsubakihara
It's too long.
Nice, Tanaka!
We've gotta keep things going...
...until Kageyama's accuracy is back on point!
You can definitely tell that
Karasuno's playing a bit stiff.
Yes. It's rare to see Kageyama-kun
make very apparent mistakes.
The fact that Kageyama and Hinata
didn't get to sync up before
the match is gonna hurt.
Karasuno                                                                         Tsubakihara
Karasuno                                                                               Tsubakihara
#4 Teradomari drops the ball
right into Karasuno's court.
He's got good awareness.
And the point gap widens.
Karasuno's setter's definitely
off his game. Let's bait him.
There won't be any quicks coming!
Keep concentrating on the left!
Why, though? We're still gonna do quicks.
Fly
Got it!
Yes!
Nice kill!
Yeah!
Yeah, yeah, Asahi! Push it,
push it, Asahi! One more time!
Damn it! They went for the left anyway!
I tried to bait them
and got baited instead!
That one was about half a ball too short.
Too high...
Damn it! He actually made that miracle shot.
Come on, let that freak accident pass.
The hell was that?
That was awesome.
Just a little more.
Karasuno                                                                                  Tsubakihara
Karasuno
Karasuno                                                                     Tsubakihara
Even if you tell yourself that
you're going to remain calm,
panic will eventually hit you.
But if you let that swallow
you up, it's all over.
That's why...
We need to give them a shot
in the arm a bit early.
Whoa, he's throwing Tadashi
in pretty early today.
I probably won't be doing anything
but serving at this tournament.
That's why I played out this scenario
hundreds of times in my head.
Shimada Mart
Listen up, Tadashi.
Don't wait for your nerves to calm down.
Practice making yourself calm.
And the best way to do that is
giving yourself a reset point.
During your warm-ups, look for something
that'll be your calm-down spot.
It can be anything from a poster,
to even an emergency exit sign.
For now, use that bag as your reset signal.
Shimada Mart
Once my emotions are reset,
I need to take aim.
My target is behind their ace...
To hit there, I have to send the
ball over that part of the net.
It veered toward their libero.
Damn, I hesitated.
It's off.
Echigo, get the last!
Three blockers!
Nice!
Fly
Karasuno High School
Their first block of the day!
Receivers, you took too long on that.
Right!
Yamaguchi! Get another nice serve!
Yes!
Yes, yes, yes!
Just how much did that kid improve
in such a short period of time?
One more!
Maiko!
There!
Tsubakihara Academy finally cut that off.
But it looks like Karasuno's
finally gaining momentum.
All right! Let's get right
into those double digits!
Karasuno                                                                                          Tsubakihara
Yeah!
Tsukishima!
Nice kill, Tsukishima!
All right. Nice job! Keep it up!
Karasuno                                                                         Tsubakihara
But we can't seem to close the point gap.
Okay. I think I got it.
Toss to me, toss to me, toss to me,
toss to me, toss to me, toss to me!
Toss to me, toss to me, toss to me, toss to me,
I don't think Hinata ever
gets scared of messing up.
And the same goes for him.
Right... on the mark!
Yes!
Sorry to keep you waiting.
Episode 11: A Chance to Connect
Next time: "A Chance to Connect."